README.md, before:

# 🫐 BlueBerry24

A modern, full-stack **e-commerce platform** built with **.NET 9** and **Next.js 15**. BlueBerry24 combines a robust, clean architecture backend with a beautiful, responsive React frontend to deliver a comprehensive online shopping experience.

[![.NET 9](https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET-9.0-512BD4?style=flat&logo=dotnet)](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/)
[![Next.js 15](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-15.1.8-000000?style=flat&logo=next.js)](https://nextjs.org/)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.0-3178C6?style=flat&logo=typescript)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![Bootstrap 5](https://img.shields.io/badge/Bootstrap-5.3.6-7952B3?style=flat&logo=bootstrap)](https://getbootstrap.com/)

---

## 🏗️ Architecture Overview

BlueBerry24 follows **Clean Architecture** principles with clear separation of concerns across multiple layers:

### Backend (.NET 9)
| Project | Responsibility |
|---------|----------------|
| **BlueBerry24.Domain**        | Enterprise rules, entities, value objects & validations. Core business logic with no external dependencies except cross-cutting libraries (FluentValidation, Identity, Redis). |
| **BlueBerry24.Application**   | Application logic, use cases, DTOs, services, and AutoMapper profiles. Depends only on Domain layer. |
| **BlueBerry24.Infrastructure**| External concerns: Entity Framework Core, SQL Server persistence, Identity stores, Redis cache, repository implementations. Depends on Domain layer. |
| **BlueBerry24.API**           | RESTful API endpoints using ASP.NET Core Minimal APIs. Exposes OpenAPI/Swagger documentation. |

### Frontend (Next.js 15)
| Directory | Responsibility |
|-----------|----------------|
| **src/app/**              | App Router pages, layouts, and API routes |
| **src/components/**       | Reusable React components (admin, auth, product, etc.) |
| **src/lib/services/**     | API client services for backend communication |
| **src/lib/actions/**      | Server actions for form handling and data mutations |
| **src/types/**            | TypeScript type definitions |

---

## ✨ Features

### 🛒 E-Commerce Core
- **Product Management**: Complete operations with categories, inventory tracking, and search
- **Shopping Cart**: Session-based cart with real-time updates and persistence
- **Order Management**: Full order lifecycle from checkout to fulfillment
- **Wishlist System**: Save products for later with sharing capabilities
- **Coupon System**: Flexible discount codes with various rules and restrictions
- **Inventory Tracking**: Real-time stock management with low-stock alerts

### 🔐 Authentication & Authorization  
- **ASP.NET Identity**: Custom `ApplicationUser` and role-based authorization
- **JWT Authentication**: Secure token-based authentication for API access
- **Role Management**: Multi-level access control (User, Admin, SuperAdmin)
- **User Profile Management**: Complete profile editing and preferences

### 📊 Admin Dashboard
- **Sales Analytics**: Revenue tracking, order statistics, and performance metrics
- **Product Management**: Bulk operations, category management, and inventory control
- **Customer Management**: User accounts, order history, and customer analytics
- **Coupon Management**: Create, manage, and track promotional campaigns
- **Order Tracking**: Real-time order status and fulfillment management
- **System Settings**: Configurable site settings and preferences

### 🎨 Modern UI/UX
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first Bootstrap 5 components
- **Server-Side Rendering**: Next.js App Router with optimized performance
- **Interactive Components**: Real-time cart updates and dynamic content
- **Admin Interface**: Comprehensive dashboard with data visualization
- **Toast Notifications**: User feedback for all actions

### 🚀 Technical Features
- **Clean Architecture**: Maintainable, testable, and scalable codebase
- **Entity Framework Core**: Code-first database approach with migrations
- **Redis Caching**: Performance optimization for frequently accessed data
- **FluentValidation**: Comprehensive input validation and error handling
- **AutoMapper**: Efficient object mapping between layers
- **OpenAPI/Swagger**: Complete API documentation and testing interface

---

## 🛠 Tech Stack

### Backend
- **.NET 9** - Latest .NET framework with performance improvements
- **ASP.NET Core 9** - Web API framework with Minimal APIs
- **Entity Framework Core 9** - Object-relational mapping with SQL Server
- **FluentValidation 11** - Robust model validation
- **AutoMapper** - Object-to-object mapping
- **ASP.NET Identity** - Authentication and authorization
- **JWT Bearer** - Token-based authentication
- **Swashbuckle** - OpenAPI documentation

### Frontend
- **Next.js 15** - React framework with App Router
- **React 19** - Latest React with concurrent features
- **TypeScript 5** - Type-safe JavaScript development
- **Bootstrap 5.3** - Responsive CSS framework
- **React Bootstrap** - Bootstrap components for React
- **Bootstrap Icons** - Comprehensive icon library
- **date-fns** - Modern date utility library

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```text
BlueBerry24/
├── BlueBerry24.API/                    # ASP.NET Core Web API
│   ├── Controllers/                    # API Controllers
│   ├── Program.cs                      # Application entry point
│   └── appsettings.json               # Configuration
├── BlueBerry24.Application/            # Application Layer
│   ├── Services/                       # Business logic services
│   │   ├── Concretes/                 # Service implementations
│   │   └── Interfaces/                # Service contracts
│   ├── Dtos/                          # Data Transfer Objects
│   ├── Mapping/                       # AutoMapper profiles
│   └── Authorization/                 # Authorization policies
├── BlueBerry24.Domain/                 # Domain Layer
│   ├── Entities/                      # Domain entities
│   │   ├── AuthEntities/              # User & Role entities
│   │   ├── ProductEntities/           # Product & Category entities
│   │   ├── OrderEntities/             # Order management entities
│   │   ├── ShoppingCartEntities/      # Cart entities
│   │   ├── CouponEntities/            # Discount entities
│   │   ├── WishlistEntities/          # Wishlist entities
│   │   ├── ShopEntities/              # Shop/Store entities
│   │   └── InventoryEntities/         # Stock management entities
│   ├── Repositories/                  # Repository interfaces
│   └── Constants/                     # Domain constants
├── BlueBerry24.Infrastructure/         # Infrastructure Layer
│   ├── Data/                          # EF Core DbContext
│   ├── Repositories/                  # Repository implementations
│   └── Migrations/                    # Database migrations
└── BlueBerry24.Web/                   # Next.js Frontend
    ├── src/
    │   ├── app/                       # App Router pages
    │   │   ├── admin/                 # Admin dashboard pages
    │   │   │   ├── analytics/         # Analytics & reports
    │   │   │   ├── categories/        # Category management
    │   │   │   ├── coupons/           # Coupon management
    │   │   │   ├── customers/         # Customer management
    │   │   │   ├── inventory/         # Inventory management
    │   │   │   ├── orders/            # Order management
    │   │   │   ├── products/          # Product management
    │   │   │   ├── reports/           # Business reports
    │   │   │   ├── settings/          # System settings
    │   │   │   └── users/             # User management
    │   │   ├── auth/                  # Authentication pages
    │   │   ├── cart/                  # Shopping cart
    │   │   ├── categories/            # Product categories
    │   │   ├── checkout/              # Checkout process
    │   │   ├── orders/                # Order history
    │   │   ├── products/              # Product catalog
    │   │   └── profile/               # User profile
    │   ├── components/                # React components
    │   │   ├── admin/                 # Admin components
    │   │   ├── auth/                  # Authentication components
    │   │   ├── cart/                  # Shopping cart components
    │   │   ├── product/               # Product components
    │   │   └── ui/                    # Common UI components
    │   ├── lib/
    │   │   ├── services/              # API client services
    │   │   ├── actions/               # Server actions
    │   │   └── utils/                 # Utility functions
    │   └── types/                     # TypeScript definitions
    ├── public/                        # Static assets
    └── package.json                   # Dependencies
```

---

## ⚡️ Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- [.NET 9 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/) (Preview Channel)
- [Node.js 18+](https://nodejs.org/) and npm/yarn
- SQL Server (LocalDB or full instance)
- Redis (optional, for caching)

### 1. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/abdulhamidshahade/BlueBerry24.git
cd BlueBerry24
```

### 2. Backend Setup (.NET API)

**Install dependencies:**
```bash
dotnet restore
```

**Configure database connection:**
```bash
# Using user secrets (recommended for development)
dotnet user-secrets set "ConnectionStrings:DefaultConnection" "Server=.;Database=BlueBerry24;Trusted_Connection=True;MultipleActiveResultSets=true" --project BlueBerry24.API

# Or edit appsettings.Development.json directly
```

**Run database migrations:**
```bash
dotnet ef database update --startup-project BlueBerry24.API --project BlueBerry24.Infrastructure
```

**Start the API:**
```bash
dotnet run --project BlueBerry24.API
```
API will be available at `https://localhost:7105` with Swagger at `/swagger`

### 3. Frontend Setup (Next.js)

**Navigate to frontend directory:**
```bash
cd BlueBerry24.Web
```

**Install dependencies:**
```bash
npm install
# or
yarn install
```

**Configure environment variables:**
```bash
# Create .env.local file
echo "NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=https://localhost:3000" > .env.local
```

**Start development server:**
```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```
Frontend will be available at `http://localhost:3000`

### 4. Default Admin Account
After running the database migrations, you can create an admin account through the registration page and promote it via the database or create one programmatically.

---

## 🔒 Authorization Levels

The API uses attribute-based authorization with the following levels:

- **Anonymous** - No authentication required
- **User+** (`[UserAndAbove]`) - Requires User role or higher
- **Admin+** (`[AdminAndAbove]`) - Requires Admin role or higher  
- **SuperAdmin** (`[SuperAdminOnly]`) - Requires SuperAdmin role only
- **Authenticated** (`[AllRoles]`) - Any authenticated user

## 📊 Response Format

All API responses follow a standardized format:

```json
{
  "isSuccess": true,
  "statusCode": 200,
  "statusMessage": "Operation completed successfully",
  "data": { /* Response data */ },
  "errors": [ /* Error messages if any */ ]
}
```

## 🔧 Query Parameters

Many endpoints support query parameters for pagination and filtering:

- `page` - Page number (default: 1)
- `pageSize` - Items per page (default: 10-50 depending on endpoint)
- `limit` - Maximum items to return

Visit `/swagger` when running the API to see the complete OpenAPI documentation with request/response schemas and interactive testing interface.

---

## 🎨 Frontend Pages

### Public Pages
- **Home** (`/`) - Landing page with featured products and categories
- **Products** (`/products`) - Product catalog with search and filtering
- **Product Details** (`/products/[id]`) - Individual product page
- **Categories** (`/categories`) - Browse by category
- **Cart** (`/cart`) - Shopping cart management
- **Checkout** (`/checkout`) - Order placement process

### User Dashboard
- **Profile** (`/profile`) - User account management
- **Orders** (`/orders`) - Order history and tracking
- **Wishlist** (`/profile/wishlist`) - Saved products

### Admin Dashboard
- **Overview** (`/admin`) - Sales metrics and quick actions
- **Products** (`/admin/products`) - Product management
- **Categories** (`/admin/categories`) - Category management
- **Orders** (`/admin/orders`) - Order management
- **Customers** (`/admin/customers`) - Customer management
- **Coupons** (`/admin/coupons`) - Discount code management
- **Analytics** (`/admin/analytics`) - Business intelligence
- **Inventory** (`/admin/inventory`) - Stock management
- **Settings** (`/admin/settings`) - System configuration

---

## 🔧 Configuration

### Backend Configuration
Key settings in `appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "DefaultConnection": "Your SQL Server connection string"
  },
  "Redis": {
    "ConnectionString": "localhost:6379"
  },
  "Jwt": {
    "Key": "your-secret-key",
    "Issuer": "BlueBerry24",
    "Audience": "BlueBerry24-Users",
    "ExpirationHours": 24
  }
}
```

### Frontend Configuration
Environment variables in `.env.local`:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=https://localhost:3000
NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_NAME=BlueBerry24
```

---

## 🧪 Testing

Unit and integration tests are planned for both backend and frontend components. When implemented, they will include:

- **Backend**: xUnit tests for services, repositories, and controllers
- **Frontend**: Jest and React Testing Library for components
- **E2E**: Playwright tests for critical user journeys

---

## 🚀 Deployment

### Backend Deployment
1. Publish the API:
   ```bash
   dotnet publish BlueBerry24.API -c Release -o ./publish
   ```
2. Deploy to your preferred hosting platform (Azure App Service, AWS, etc.)
3. Configure production connection strings and secrets

### Frontend Deployment
1. Build the Next.js application:
   ```bash
   cd BlueBerry24.Web
   npm run build
   ```
2. Deploy to Vercel, Netlify, or your preferred hosting platform
3. Configure environment variables for production API URL

### Database Deployment
```bash
# Generate migration scripts for production
dotnet ef migrations script --project BlueBerry24.Infrastructure --startup-project BlueBerry24.API
```

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -m 'feat: add amazing feature'`
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin feature/amazing-feature`
5. Open a Pull Request

### Development Guidelines
- Follow Clean Architecture principles
- Write descriptive commit messages using conventional commits
- Ensure code is properly formatted and linted
- Add appropriate tests for new features
- Update documentation as needed

---

## 📖 Documentation

- **API Documentation**: Available at `/swagger` when running the API
- **Component Documentation**: Storybook integration planned
- **Architecture Decision Records**: Located in `/docs/adr/` (planned)

---

## 🛡️ Security

BlueBerry24 implements comprehensive security measures:

- **Authentication**: JWT tokens with secure headers
- **Authorization**: Role-based access control
- **Data Protection**: ASP.NET Core Data Protection APIs
- **Input Validation**: FluentValidation with XSS protection
- **HTTPS Enforcement**: Secure communication only
- **CORS Policy**: Configured for frontend domain only

---

## 📊 Performance

- **Caching**: Redis distributed cache for improved response times
- **Database**: Optimized EF Core queries with proper indexing
- **Frontend**: Next.js SSR and static generation for fast loading
- **Images**: Optimized image loading and responsive images
- **Bundle Size**: Tree shaking and code splitting for minimal bundles

---

## 📄 License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE.txt` for more information.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [ASP.NET Core](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/) - Web framework
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) - React framework
- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) - CSS framework
- [Bootstrap Icons](https://icons.getbootstrap.com/) - Icon library
- [Entity Framework Core](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/) - ORM
- [FluentValidation](https://fluentvalidation.net/) - Validation library

---

## 📞 Support

For support and questions:
- 📧 Email: shahade.abdulhamid@gmail.com

---

Commit message:

Add Docker run instructions to README.md
Added a new section in the README.md detailing how to run the application with Docker. This section provides step-by-step instructions for setting up the environment, including copying the .env.example file, editing it with necessary secrets, and starting the services using docker compose. The API, frontend, and SQL Server access details are also specified.

README.md, after:

# 🫐 BlueBerry24

A modern, full-stack **e-commerce platform** built with **.NET 9** and **Next.js 15**. BlueBerry24 combines a robust, clean architecture backend with a beautiful, responsive React frontend to deliver a comprehensive online shopping experience.

[![.NET 9](https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET-9.0-512BD4?style=flat&logo=dotnet)](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/)
[![Next.js 15](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-15.1.8-000000?style=flat&logo=next.js)](https://nextjs.org/)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.0-3178C6?style=flat&logo=typescript)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![Bootstrap 5](https://img.shields.io/badge/Bootstrap-5.3.6-7952B3?style=flat&logo=bootstrap)](https://getbootstrap.com/)

---

## 🏗️ Architecture Overview

BlueBerry24 follows **Clean Architecture** principles with clear separation of concerns across multiple layers:

### Backend (.NET 9)
| Project | Responsibility |
|---------|----------------|
| **BlueBerry24.Domain**        | Enterprise rules, entities, value objects & validations. Core business logic with no external dependencies except cross-cutting libraries (FluentValidation, Identity, Redis). |
| **BlueBerry24.Application**   | Application logic, use cases, DTOs, services, and AutoMapper profiles. Depends only on Domain layer. |
| **BlueBerry24.Infrastructure**| External concerns: Entity Framework Core, SQL Server persistence, Identity stores, Redis cache, repository implementations. Depends on Domain layer. |
| **BlueBerry24.API**           | RESTful API endpoints using ASP.NET Core Minimal APIs. Exposes OpenAPI/Swagger documentation. |

### Frontend (Next.js 15)
| Directory | Responsibility |
|-----------|----------------|
| **src/app/**              | App Router pages, layouts, and API routes |
| **src/components/**       | Reusable React components (admin, auth, product, etc.) |
| **src/lib/services/**     | API client services for backend communication |
| **src/lib/actions/**      | Server actions for form handling and data mutations |
| **src/types/**            | TypeScript type definitions |

---

## ✨ Features

### 🛒 E-Commerce Core
- **Product Management**: Complete operations with categories, inventory tracking, and search
- **Shopping Cart**: Session-based cart with real-time updates and persistence
- **Order Management**: Full order lifecycle from checkout to fulfillment
- **Wishlist System**: Save products for later with sharing capabilities
- **Coupon System**: Flexible discount codes with various rules and restrictions
- **Inventory Tracking**: Real-time stock management with low-stock alerts

### 🔐 Authentication & Authorization  
- **ASP.NET Identity**: Custom `ApplicationUser` and role-based authorization
- **JWT Authentication**: Secure token-based authentication for API access
- **Role Management**: Multi-level access control (User, Admin, SuperAdmin)
- **User Profile Management**: Complete profile editing and preferences

### 📊 Admin Dashboard
- **Sales Analytics**: Revenue tracking, order statistics, and performance metrics
- **Product Management**: Bulk operations, category management, and inventory control
- **Customer Management**: User accounts, order history, and customer analytics
- **Coupon Management**: Create, manage, and track promotional campaigns
- **Order Tracking**: Real-time order status and fulfillment management
- **System Settings**: Configurable site settings and preferences

### 🎨 Modern UI/UX
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first Bootstrap 5 components
- **Server-Side Rendering**: Next.js App Router with optimized performance
- **Interactive Components**: Real-time cart updates and dynamic content
- **Admin Interface**: Comprehensive dashboard with data visualization
- **Toast Notifications**: User feedback for all actions

### 🚀 Technical Features
- **Clean Architecture**: Maintainable, testable, and scalable codebase
- **Entity Framework Core**: Code-first database approach with migrations
- **Redis Caching**: Performance optimization for frequently accessed data
- **FluentValidation**: Comprehensive input validation and error handling
- **AutoMapper**: Efficient object mapping between layers
- **OpenAPI/Swagger**: Complete API documentation and testing interface

---

## 🛠 Tech Stack

### Backend
- **.NET 9** - Latest .NET framework with performance improvements
- **ASP.NET Core 9** - Web API framework with Minimal APIs
- **Entity Framework Core 9** - Object-relational mapping with SQL Server
- **FluentValidation 11** - Robust model validation
- **AutoMapper** - Object-to-object mapping
- **ASP.NET Identity** - Authentication and authorization
- **JWT Bearer** - Token-based authentication
- **Swashbuckle** - OpenAPI documentation

### Frontend
- **Next.js 15** - React framework with App Router
- **React 19** - Latest React with concurrent features
- **TypeScript 5** - Type-safe JavaScript development
- **Bootstrap 5.3** - Responsive CSS framework
- **React Bootstrap** - Bootstrap components for React
- **Bootstrap Icons** - Comprehensive icon library
- **date-fns** - Modern date utility library

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```text
BlueBerry24/
├── BlueBerry24.API/                    # ASP.NET Core Web API
│   ├── Controllers/                    # API Controllers
│   ├── Program.cs                      # Application entry point
│   └── appsettings.json               # Configuration
├── BlueBerry24.Application/            # Application Layer
│   ├── Services/                       # Business logic services
│   │   ├── Concretes/                 # Service implementations
│   │   └── Interfaces/                # Service contracts
│   ├── Dtos/                          # Data Transfer Objects
│   ├── Mapping/                       # AutoMapper profiles
│   └── Authorization/                 # Authorization policies
├── BlueBerry24.Domain/                 # Domain Layer
│   ├── Entities/                      # Domain entities
│   │   ├── AuthEntities/              # User & Role entities
│   │   ├── ProductEntities/           # Product & Category entities
│   │   ├── OrderEntities/             # Order management entities
│   │   ├── ShoppingCartEntities/      # Cart entities
│   │   ├── CouponEntities/            # Discount entities
│   │   ├── WishlistEntities/          # Wishlist entities
│   │   ├── ShopEntities/              # Shop/Store entities
│   │   └── InventoryEntities/         # Stock management entities
│   ├── Repositories/                  # Repository interfaces
│   └── Constants/                     # Domain constants
├── BlueBerry24.Infrastructure/         # Infrastructure Layer
│   ├── Data/                          # EF Core DbContext
│   ├── Repositories/                  # Repository implementations
│   └── Migrations/                    # Database migrations
└── BlueBerry24.Web/                   # Next.js Frontend
    ├── src/
    │   ├── app/                       # App Router pages
    │   │   ├── admin/                 # Admin dashboard pages
    │   │   │   ├── analytics/         # Analytics & reports
    │   │   │   ├── categories/        # Category management
    │   │   │   ├── coupons/           # Coupon management
    │   │   │   ├── customers/         # Customer management
    │   │   │   ├── inventory/         # Inventory management
    │   │   │   ├── orders/            # Order management
    │   │   │   ├── products/          # Product management
    │   │   │   ├── reports/           # Business reports
    │   │   │   ├── settings/          # System settings
    │   │   │   └── users/             # User management
    │   │   ├── auth/                  # Authentication pages
    │   │   ├── cart/                  # Shopping cart
    │   │   ├── categories/            # Product categories
    │   │   ├── checkout/              # Checkout process
    │   │   ├── orders/                # Order history
    │   │   ├── products/              # Product catalog
    │   │   └── profile/               # User profile
    │   ├── components/                # React components
    │   │   ├── admin/                 # Admin components
    │   │   ├── auth/                  # Authentication components
    │   │   ├── cart/                  # Shopping cart components
    │   │   ├── product/               # Product components
    │   │   └── ui/                    # Common UI components
    │   ├── lib/
    │   │   ├── services/              # API client services
    │   │   ├── actions/               # Server actions
    │   │   └── utils/                 # Utility functions
    │   └── types/                     # TypeScript definitions
    ├── public/                        # Static assets
    └── package.json                   # Dependencies
```

---

## ⚡️ Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- [.NET 9 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/) (Preview Channel)
- [Node.js 18+](https://nodejs.org/) and npm/yarn
- SQL Server (LocalDB or full instance)
- Redis (optional, for caching)

### 1. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/abdulhamidshahade/BlueBerry24.git
cd BlueBerry24
```

### 2. Backend Setup (.NET API)

**Install dependencies:**
```bash
dotnet restore
```

**Configure database connection:**
```bash
# Using user secrets (recommended for development)
dotnet user-secrets set "ConnectionStrings:DefaultConnection" "Server=.;Database=BlueBerry24;Trusted_Connection=True;MultipleActiveResultSets=true" --project BlueBerry24.API

# Or edit appsettings.Development.json directly
```

**Run database migrations:**
```bash
dotnet ef database update --startup-project BlueBerry24.API --project BlueBerry24.Infrastructure
```

**Start the API:**
```bash
dotnet run --project BlueBerry24.API
```
API will be available at `https://localhost:7105` with Swagger at `/swagger`

### 3. Frontend Setup (Next.js)

**Navigate to frontend directory:**
```bash
cd BlueBerry24.Web
```

**Install dependencies:**
```bash
npm install
# or
yarn install
```

**Configure environment variables:**
```bash
# Create .env.local file
echo "NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=https://localhost:3000" > .env.local
```

**Start development server:**
```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```
Frontend will be available at `http://localhost:3000`

### 4. Default Admin Account
After running the database migrations, you can create an admin account through the registration page and promote it via the database or create one programmatically.

### 5. Run with Docker (optional)

From the repository root:

```bash
# Copy environment template and add your secrets (do not commit .env)
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your SA_PASSWORD, JWT secret, and Gmail credentials

# Build and start all services
docker compose up -d
```

- **API**: http://localhost:7105  
- **Frontend**: http://localhost:30305  
- **SQL Server**: localhost:11433 (user `sa`, password from `.env`)

Secrets (passwords, JWT key, Gmail) are read from `.env`; only `.env.example` is committed.

---

## 🔒 Authorization Levels

The API uses attribute-based authorization with the following levels:

- **Anonymous** - No authentication required
- **User+** (`[UserAndAbove]`) - Requires User role or higher
- **Admin+** (`[AdminAndAbove]`) - Requires Admin role or higher  
- **SuperAdmin** (`[SuperAdminOnly]`) - Requires SuperAdmin role only
- **Authenticated** (`[AllRoles]`) - Any authenticated user

## 📊 Response Format

All API responses follow a standardized format:

```json
{
  "isSuccess": true,
  "statusCode": 200,
  "statusMessage": "Operation completed successfully",
  "data": { /* Response data */ },
  "errors": [ /* Error messages if any */ ]
}
```

## 🔧 Query Parameters

Many endpoints support query parameters for pagination and filtering:

- `page` - Page number (default: 1)
- `pageSize` - Items per page (default: 10-50 depending on endpoint)
- `limit` - Maximum items to return

Visit `/swagger` when running the API to see the complete OpenAPI documentation with request/response schemas and interactive testing interface.

---

## 🎨 Frontend Pages

### Public Pages
- **Home** (`/`) - Landing page with featured products and categories
- **Products** (`/products`) - Product catalog with search and filtering
- **Product Details** (`/products/[id]`) - Individual product page
- **Categories** (`/categories`) - Browse by category
- **Cart** (`/cart`) - Shopping cart management
- **Checkout** (`/checkout`) - Order placement process

### User Dashboard
- **Profile** (`/profile`) - User account management
- **Orders** (`/orders`) - Order history and tracking
- **Wishlist** (`/profile/wishlist`) - Saved products

### Admin Dashboard
- **Overview** (`/admin`) - Sales metrics and quick actions
- **Products** (`/admin/products`) - Product management
- **Categories** (`/admin/categories`) - Category management
- **Orders** (`/admin/orders`) - Order management
- **Customers** (`/admin/customers`) - Customer management
- **Coupons** (`/admin/coupons`) - Discount code management
- **Analytics** (`/admin/analytics`) - Business intelligence
- **Inventory** (`/admin/inventory`) - Stock management
- **Settings** (`/admin/settings`) - System configuration

---

## 🔧 Configuration

### Backend Configuration
Key settings in `appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "DefaultConnection": "Your SQL Server connection string"
  },
  "Redis": {
    "ConnectionString": "localhost:6379"
  },
  "Jwt": {
    "Key": "your-secret-key",
    "Issuer": "BlueBerry24",
    "Audience": "BlueBerry24-Users",
    "ExpirationHours": 24
  }
}
```

### Frontend Configuration
Environment variables in `.env.local`:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=https://localhost:3000
NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_NAME=BlueBerry24
```

---

## 🧪 Testing

Unit and integration tests are planned for both backend and frontend components. When implemented, they will include:

- **Backend**: xUnit tests for services, repositories, and controllers
- **Frontend**: Jest and React Testing Library for components
- **E2E**: Playwright tests for critical user journeys

---

## 🚀 Deployment

### Backend Deployment
1. Publish the API:
   ```bash
   dotnet publish BlueBerry24.API -c Release -o ./publish
   ```
2. Deploy to your preferred hosting platform (Azure App Service, AWS, etc.)
3. Configure production connection strings and secrets

### Frontend Deployment
1. Build the Next.js application:
   ```bash
   cd BlueBerry24.Web
   npm run build
   ```
2. Deploy to Vercel, Netlify, or your preferred hosting platform
3. Configure environment variables for production API URL

### Database Deployment
```bash
# Generate migration scripts for production
dotnet ef migrations script --project BlueBerry24.Infrastructure --startup-project BlueBerry24.API
```

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -m 'feat: add amazing feature'`
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin feature/amazing-feature`
5. Open a Pull Request

### Development Guidelines
- Follow Clean Architecture principles
- Write descriptive commit messages using conventional commits
- Ensure code is properly formatted and linted
- Add appropriate tests for new features
- Update documentation as needed

---

## 📖 Documentation

- **API Documentation**: Available at `/swagger` when running the API
- **Component Documentation**: Storybook integration planned
- **Architecture Decision Records**: Located in `/docs/adr/` (planned)

---

## 🛡️ Security

BlueBerry24 implements comprehensive security measures:

- **Authentication**: JWT tokens with secure headers
- **Authorization**: Role-based access control
- **Data Protection**: ASP.NET Core Data Protection APIs
- **Input Validation**: FluentValidation with XSS protection
- **HTTPS Enforcement**: Secure communication only
- **CORS Policy**: Configured for frontend domain only

---

## 📊 Performance

- **Caching**: Redis distributed cache for improved response times
- **Database**: Optimized EF Core queries with proper indexing
- **Frontend**: Next.js SSR and static generation for fast loading
- **Images**: Optimized image loading and responsive images
- **Bundle Size**: Tree shaking and code splitting for minimal bundles

---

## 📄 License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE.txt` for more information.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [ASP.NET Core](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/) - Web framework
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) - React framework
- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) - CSS framework
- [Bootstrap Icons](https://icons.getbootstrap.com/) - Icon library
- [Entity Framework Core](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/) - ORM
- [FluentValidation](https://fluentvalidation.net/) - Validation library

---

## 📞 Support

For support and questions:
- 📧 Email: shahade.abdulhamid@gmail.com

---
